# Knowledge Sharing and Network Dynamics in a European Research Project Setting. The Case of Sobigdata+
## What's this thesis project about?
### Introduction
The goal of the thesis is to expand the current knowledge about two topics that in the last decades have been growing in importance: knowledge sharing and network theory. Organisational studies are exploring the power of connecting different minds in a shared environment and let them work on intangible assets to create value for customers and the research community. In order to achieve that, a practical example will be presented: the consortium behind the European project SoBigData++.
###SoBigData project
SoBigData++ aims to deliver a Pan-European, multi-disciplinary research , and distributer infrastructure for big social data analytics, together with the creation of a cross-disciplinary European research community, whose goal is to use social mining and big data to grasp part of the complexity of our contemporary, society.  By design, it is supposed to be a large-scale interdisciplinary social data mining platform, based on three defining pillars: 
The first pillar states that SoBigData should act as a continuously growing, distributed platform of interoperable social data mining tools, methodologies and services for mining, analysing, and visualising massive datasets, together with associated data scientists' skills for the ethically safe deployment of big data analytics. The second one states that SoBigData should build a social mining community comprising scientific, industrial and third-party stakeholders, such as policymakers, supported by joint research, transnational and virtual access activities, as well as extensive networking and innovation actions (workshops, summer schools, datathons, training resources, knowledge transfer and industrial partnerships). The last one states that SoBigData should act as a continuously growing, distributed data ecosystem for procurement, access and curation of big social data within an ethic-sensitive context. This ecosystem is funded on innovative strategies to absorb big social data for research purposes, by means of both opportunistic methods provided by social sensing technologies and participatory methods based on involving the user as “prosumers” of knowledge and social data.
The SoBigData++ consortium consists of 31 partners from 11 member countries of the European Union (Bulgaria, Belgium, France, Greece, Spain, Hungary, Italy, UK, Germany, Estonia, Finland, The Netherlands) and Switzerland. The central consortium has been assembled in order to include the leading European research groups that in the past decade contributed to shape the big social data analytics arena. They fall in the following categories:
- E-Infrastructure Engineer: responsible for maintaining the e-infrastructure and realising and supporting new services on the platform. 
- Data Architect: Contribute to the integration of Social Mining Dataset and tools.
- Data Science Expert: Contribute mainly on the Exploratories developing complex analytical processes. 
- Ethics and Legality Expert: they are experts in ethic and legal domain and will contribute most as consultants all over the project. 
- End-User: they are experts who have particular expertise on a scientific domain with modelling capabilities but not expertise in big data analytics.
 
The project articulates in 10 areas, and Scuola Superiore Sant'Anna was involved in the innovation management task called WP5, that in turn was split it three sub-activities: WP5 deals with the management of Challenge Us Programme, which is going to enable companies that are part of SoBigData network to submit one of the challenges they are facing to consortium's researchers. The second task is about the development of entrepreneurial skills for big-data entrepreneurs, by organising seminars and meeting, in order to help research and problem-solvers actionable "go to market plans". Lastly, the third task is about contributing to policymaking and creating partnerships with industries, by codifying the contacts taking place within the network, in order to foster knowledge sharing and enlarging the community with other institutions and firms sharing similar interests. The thesis research was born on this last task, as mentioned before the idea was to study and describe SoBigData Consortium as a network of institutions exchanging knowledge using their nodes. Thus it was very immediate to start from knowledge sharing and network literature to build the basis of the literature and then using them as a lens to understand the dynamics underneath.
### The research
In order to compare the literature with the case of the consortium,  data have been collected through a survey regarding consortium knowledge management practices and network's linkage formation and then elaborated.
The timeline of data collection has been the following: It all started in January 2020, a first draft for the institutions has been drafted starting from the research areas and the previous literature. On 19th and 20th of February 2020, the first consortium meeting has taken place at Consiglio Nazionale Delle Ricerche in Pisa, marking the official kick-off of the project. The event has been relevant to the research survey since during the last day, the participants have been asked to provide feedback to the survey questions, making sure that the content of the research was clear and relevant to all the participants who were then asked to answer directly. After having considered the feedbacks, the survey has been sent to the institutions' representative at the end of February. The results have been elaborated in the following months. 
Network analysis was done considering the centrality of the nodes. Two measures of centrality were created: the one coming from the role planned from the project and the one created from the impressions of the other participants. Crossing these two measures, the participants have been put into four centrality categories.
The second part of analysis regarded knowledge management processes: using Nonaka's theory of knowledge creation, it was possible to create a clear picture of how the participation in the project influence internal knowledge management processes.
Thirdly, the competences brought from everyone has been measured in terms of uniqueness, by analysing the frequency they appear, and then put together at the partner level. Then each partners' uniqueness score has been plotted against their centrality score and their knowledge management characteristics.

